# BennettCreek

Howdy. This is a repository of code that I have used to create input files for the Ages hydrologic model at Bennett Creek in Larimer County, Colorado. 

Project Abstract:

Modeling the Effects of Post-Wildfire Rehabilitation Treatments on Hydrology and Nutrient Cycling in Experimental Watersheds in Colorado

Abstract. The number of seasonal wildfires and their total burned area has been increasing in Colorado. This trend is mostly driven by climate change, increasing human activities in the urban/wildland interface, and the carryover effects of early 1900s forest management. Besides disturbing vegetation, wildfires have both immediate and long-term effects on hydrologic and biogeochemical cycles of forested mountainous areas. Severe fires reduce water infiltration into the soil, causing nutrients and sediments to wash away and compromise the quality of downstream water resources, in addition to creating landslide and flood hazards. After wildfires, agencies rapidly act to minimize nutrient loss and topsoil erosion using different slope-stabilization methods. Surprisingly, the long-term biogeochemical effects of post-fire rehabilitation techniques such as mulching (among the most commonly used) are not well understood. We have applied the Agricultural Ecosystems Services (Ages) distributed ecohydrology model to simulate long-term post-fire nitrogen and hydrological responses at sites affected by the Cameron Peak fire in Colorado. We investigate the influence of post-fire rehabilitation techniques in severely burned areas on hydrology and nitrogen cycling dynamics by collecting samples and using field measurements from sensor networks in mulched and un-mulched hillslopes to calibrate models, which can be scaled to simulate full watersheds. We have partnered with the US Forest Service (USFS) and Colorado State University (CSU) to access previously instrumented and treated sites, as well as sites with ongoing instrument installation and mulch application. This research helps advance hydrologic and water quality modeling and informs agencies of the impacts of best practices in critical zone rehabilitation treatments post wildfire.
